All right, so now let me talk about
another scaling strategy that
is known as horizontal scaling.
Okay, so in the last video we have
already seen the vertical scaling.
So now this system, you know, what
are the pros and what are the cons?
Let's redesign the system.
This time.
What I'm going to do is we are
going to have a lot of users.
Of course, right?
We have a lot of users.
Instead of having one server, let
me just have first one server.
Let's say this is my one server.
And this server has a bare minimum
configuration that is CPU
and you have a 4GB of RAM, right?
So 2 CPU, 4GB of RAM.
This machine is capable
of handling maybe 70 to 80 people.
Now what happens as my load is
increasing, what I'm going to do is
I am going to add one more server.
I am not upgrading the server,
I am not touching the server.
I added one more replica,
one more copy of the server.
As my load increases, I am going
to add one more server.
But here is a problem.
Okay?
You can see that I have
added more servers.
But the problem here is how users
will know to which server to go.
Because technically, let's say this
server, has an IP of this thing.
Okay?
This is the original ip.
Now you are spinning up one
more new machine, the IP
address will be different.
You are spinning up one more machine,
the IP address will be different if
on your DNS because you
can only have one IP per domain.
If piyushgurk.dev okay.dev
is actually pointing to 2.
3.
4.5.
All the users are anyway redirected
to this machine only, right?
No one is going to this
and no one is going to this.
So the problem is that either you
have to create multiple domains,
you have to create something like
fuse kirk.hyhen1.dev then you
have to create, then you have to
buy one more domain that is like
two and then you have to buy one
more domain that is something
like this.
And then you have to basically
point them to respective servers.
And you have to ask the users
that please choose any randomly.
If that server is not working,
you can choose any other of them.
Either one of them is
for sure working.
That's not the right thing, right?
Because eventually everyone will
first try to go to first server.
If it is not working, go to here.
So there is going to be a chaos.
The problem here is that you
are not able to balance the load
between them and that's where
your load balancer comes in.
So whenever you do this kind
of Scaling, where you add
more servers, you add more replicas
of the same server.
You need something known
as a load balancer.
Okay, this load balancer,
is again a machine which
has its own IP address.
Okay, so let's say, the IP address
of this particular machine
is, you know, maybe nine.
Let's take nine.
So what you are going to do is on
your DNS, you are going to redirect
the users on your load balancer.
So there is no direct request.
You can just drop all these,
you know, direct requests.
So direct requests are
not allowed anymore.
What users need to basically do is
users will interact with what
users are going to make all the
requests to the load balancer,
and your load balancer internally
will balance the load between the
servers.
So first request to first server,
second request to second server,
third request to third server,
fourth request to the first server.
5, 6, 7, 8.
And this is known as round
robin load balancing.
Okay, so in round, round robin
load balancing, what happens?
First user goes to first
server, second user goes
to second, third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth,
tenth, eleventh, twelve.
Round robin load balancing.
So this solves the problem
that now what happens is number
one, you are scaling number one,
you are scaling number two.
There is no single point of failure.
If this machine has some
technical issue, let's say
this machine is down.
Now you still have two machines.
If this machine is also down
for some reasons, right, you
still have one machine running.
So what you can do is you can
actually keep on spinning more
machines as your traffic grows.
So you know here that, you know,
one machine, okay, one machine
is capable of handling around
approximately 60 users,
let's say 60 to 70 users.
So when you have more than 60 loads,
keep another machine ready.
When you have 120 users,
keep third machine ready.
So this is how you scale.
And this strategy is known as
horizontal scaling.
Scaling.
So what is horizontal scaling?
Horizontal scaling
by definition means adding more
replica of the server is
known as horizontal scaling.
Okay, so in horizontal scaling
you add more replicas and to,
to actually balance the load
between multiple servers, because
now you have multiple replicas,
you need a load balancer.
Okay, so vertical scaling, adding
more power and resources
to a single server, horizontal
scaling, adding more servers.
And you know, most cloud providers
like aws, they give you something
known as auto scaling policy.
Okay, Auto scaling groups
and auto scaling policy.
So this is known as auto scaling,
asg, auto scaling group.
So what happens is you can define
a policy saying, okay, that if
my average CPU goes, okay, goes
above, let's say you know, 70%
keep another machine ready.
So this is known as scaling out.
Okay, scaling out policy,
which means that if the how many
machines are running, I don't care
when the average CPU utilization
is more than 70%, please keep
the another machine ready.
And similarly, if it goes okay,
if it goes below 70%, okay, 70%
for let's say more than one hour,
just kill all the machines
and keep one machine.
Okay, kill all extra machines.
So what happens when you
have a spike traffic?
You add more servers when this,
when the traffic is gone
on your typical day, you delete
all the machines and just keep
one or two machines ready.
So this is how you do auto scaling.
So this is a nice balance
between resources.
When you need them, you add them.
When you don't need them,
you just destroy them.
So this is known as
horizontal scaling.
So now you know two scaling methods
of a server, that is vertical
scaling and horizontal scaling.